Gitops basic tutorial update (#1637)
giantswarm/docs: src/content/advanced/gitops/index.md

Due to extra security policies enforced by Kyverno, setting `.spec.serviceAccountName` for `Kustomization`/`HelmRelease` resources in our Management Clusters is mandatory. Usually, you will want to use `serviceAccountName: "automation"`.

## Creating your repo structure

> A gitops repository can have any arbitrary structure. This provides flexibility to adapt the repo to your own infra sructure. In giant swarm we have a clear hierarchical structure and we recommend to use this structure. This provides some advantages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A GitOps repository can have any arbitrary structure. This provides flexibility to adapt the repo to your own infra structure. In Giant Swarm, we have a clear hierarchical structure and we recommend using this structure. This provides some advantages:
```

> - It's easy to locate things and know what and where is being deployed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It's easy to locate resources and know what and where is being deployed
```

- If you need support from us, our engineers will easily understand the structure

The recommended structure (simplified) is:

```text
bases
├── clusters
└── ...
management-clusters
└── MC_NAME
    ├── secrets
    └── organizations
        └── ORG_NAME
            └── workload-clusters
                ├── WC_NAME1
                │   ├── mapi                installed from the MC
                │   │    ├── apps
                │   │    │    └── APP1
                │   │    └── cluster
                │   └── [out-of-band]       installed directly in the WC
                └── WC_NAME2                     
```

> We provide a template repository where this structure is elaborated and explained in detail in [giantswarm/gitops-template](https://github.com/giantswarm/gitops-template).
> It's not necessary to clone that repo to follow this guide, but it can provide a good reference for every possible usecase.
> We recommend to copy, at least, the bases folder from that repository to your own repo because cluster creation uses them as templates as we will see later in this document.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We provide a template repository where this structure is elaborated and explained in detail in [giantswarm/gitops-template](https://github.com/giantswarm/gitops-template). It is not necessary to clone the repository to follow this guide, but it can provide a good reference for every possible use case. We recommend copying, at least, the bases folder from that repository to your own repository because cluster creation uses them as templates as we will see later in this document.

```

### Setting up sources

> First thing's first - create a bare-bones repository where we will store the resources that will be deployed. In this repository we need to create the structure described in the last section, and copy the bases for workload clusters and other apps in the Giant Swarm catalog. Follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First things first - create a bare-bones repository where we will store the resources that will be deployed. In this repository, we need to create the structure described in the last section and copy the bases for workload clusters and other apps in the Giant Swarm catalog. Follow these steps:
```

> First thing's first - create a bare-bones repository where we will store the resources that will be deployed. In this repository we need to create the structure described in the last section, and copy the bases for workload clusters and other apps in the Giant Swarm catalog. Follow these steps:

Reviewer: @carillan81 I think you miss this one

> First thing's first - create a bare-bones repository where we will store the resources that will be deployed. In this repository we need to create the structure described in the last section, and copy the bases for workload clusters and other apps in the Giant Swarm catalog. Follow these steps:

Author: I changed the term `first` for other wording in those cases

  
1. Copy bases folder from [giantswarm/gitops-template](https://github.com/giantswarm/gitops-template)

2. Init the repository in order to create the first part of the structure and some git hooks. This will create a folder `management-clusters`. Use the command:

```nohighlight
kubectl gs gitops init
```

> > Note: To learn more about Giant Swarm's kubectl plugin, visit [kubectl-gs documentation]({{< relref "/ui-api/kubectl-gs/" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
__Note__: To learn more about Giant Swarm's kubectl plugin, visit [kubectl-gs documentation]({{< relref "/ui-api/kubectl-gs/" >}}).
```
We use this syntax

### Attach the repo to a management cluster

Now we create the structure for the management clusters we are going to deploy to. Run this command for every management cluster.

```nohighlight
kubectl gs gitops add management-cluster --name MC_NAME --repository-name MC_NAME-git-repo --gen-master-key
```

> This commands creates the folder for the management cluster, the `Kustomization` file for the MC, `organizations` folder and `secrets` folder, already populated with an encoding key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command creates the folder for the management cluster, the `Kustomization` file for the MC, `organizations` folder and `secrets` folder, already populated with an encoding key.
```

> Then, we create `GitRepository` resource that points to the repository. We will need a resource for every management cluster, so we filter the files to be retrieved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, we create a Flux `GitRepository` resource that points to our repository. We need a `GitRepository` resource for every management cluster we want to manage. In the `GitRepository` resource we define the URL where our repository is stored.
```
Can we add a GitRepository example?

> First, we need to crate a secret (we will refer to it as GIT_CREDENTIALS_SECRET, please, replace with the chosen name) with the credentials to access the repository. This will allow Flux to download the repo files in order to apply all resources. If your repo is public you don't need the secret and can safely delete the parameter `secret-ref` of the next command.
> This process is different depending on the git platform used (ssh-keys, token, user/password). Check documentation of every provider to create the secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we need to create a secret (we will refer to it as `GIT_CREDENTIALS_SECRET`, please, replace it with the chosen name) with the credentials to access the repository. This will allow Flux to download the repo files in order to apply all resources. If your repo is public you don't need the secret and can safely delete the parameter `secret-ref` of the next command.

This process is different depending on the git platform used (ssh-keys, token, user/password). Check the documentation of every provider to create the secret.
```

> Now, we need to crate a secret (we will refer to it as GIT_CREDENTIALS_SECRET, please, replace with the chosen name) with the credentials to access the repository. This will allow Flux to download the repo files in order to apply all resources. If your repo is public you don't need the secret and can safely delete the parameter `secret-ref` of the next command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, we need to create a secret (we will refer to it as GIT_CREDENTIALS_SECRET, please, replace with the chosen name) with the credentials to access the repository. This will allow Flux to download the repo files in order to apply all resources. If your repo is public you don't need the secret and can safely delete the parameter `secret-ref` of the next command.
```

```nohighlight
flux create source git MC_NAME-git-repo \
        --url=YOUR_REPO_URL \
        --branch=main \
        --interval=30s \
        --namespace=default \
        --ignore-paths='**,!management-clusters/MC_NAME/**,!bases/**,**.md' \
        --secret-ref=GIT_CREDENTIALS_SECRET \
        --export > management-clusters/MC_NAME/MC_NAME-git-repo.yaml
```

> This command creates the Custom Resource for us and exports it to a yaml file in the management-cluster folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command creates the Custom Resource for us and exports it to a YAML file in the management-cluster folder.
```

Time to apply the generated YAML:

```nohighlight
kubectl create -f management-clusters/MC_NAME/MC_NAME-git-repo.yaml
```

We can see if the change was applied using `kubectl` (names will difer):

```nohiglight
kubectl get gitrepositories -n default 
NAME        URL                                       READY   STATUS                                                            AGE
flux-demo   https://github.com/giantswarm/flux-demo   True    Fetched revision: main/74f8d19cc2ac9bee6f45660236344a054c63b71f   27s
```

or Flux CLI - `flux`:

```nohighlight
 flux get sources git -n default 
NAME            READY   MESSAGE                                                         REVISION                                        SUSPENDED
flux-demo       True    Fetched revision: main/74f8d19cc2ac9bee6f45660236344a054c63b71f main/74f8d19cc2ac9bee6f45660236344a054c63b71f   False
```

Next, we configure the keys that will be used in the management cluster flux to decypher secrets so they can be safely stored in the repo.

> In this example we are using the simplest for of `sops` key management, we are creating a master key for all the kustomizations in this management cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example we are using `sops` with `pgp` key management and creating a master key for all the kustomizations in this management cluster.
```

> The key was already created for us in the `kubectl gs gitops add management-cluster` command so we only need to apply the secret in the cluster and safely store the private gpg key so we can use it to encrypt files before pushing them to the repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The key was already created for us in the `kubectl gs gitops add management-cluster` command so we only need to apply the secret in the cluster and safely store the private GPG key so we can use it to encrypt files before pushing them to the repo.
```
Instead of put the command we could add an anchor to the step

> The key was already created for us in the `kubectl gs gitops add management-cluster` command so we only need to apply the secret in the cluster and safely store the private gpg key so we can use it to encrypt files before pushing them to the repo.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This master key is created automatically by the `kubectl gs gitops add management-cluster` command so we only need to apply the secret in the cluster and safely store the private gpg key so we can use it to encrypt files before pushing them to the repo.
```

To import the private key (replace X's by the specific file name):

```nohighlight
gpg --import ./management-clusters/grizzly/.sops.keys/master.XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX.asc
```

> Important! You must safely store the private key and keep it secret!

To create the secret in the cluster we run:

```nohighlight
kubectl create -f management-clusters/MC_NAME/secrets/MC_NAME.gpgkey.enc.yaml
```

> Now, in order to safely store the key in the repo we can encode the yaml file using `sops`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, in order to safely store the key in the repo we can encode the YAML file using `sops`:
```

```nohighlight
sops --encrypt --in-place management-clusters/MC_NAME/secrets/${MC_NAME}.gpgkey.enc.yaml
```

Now we are applying the `Kustomization` file to the management cluster so the files in this repo will be monitored and the resources created accordingly. After this, any resource creation in the cluster doesn't need kubectl access. Now, if you add any more CRs inside the folders managed by the `Kustomization` they will be picked up by Flux automatically once it's committed and pushed.

```nohighlight
kubectl create -f management-clusters/MC_NAME/MC_NAME.yaml
```

### Managing organizations

> The higher level Giant Swarm custom resource you can create is an [Organization]({{< relref "/ui-api/management-api/crd/organizations.security.giantswarm.io.md" >}}).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The highest level Giant Swarm custom resource you can create is an [Organization]({{< relref "/ui-api/management-api/crd/organizations.security.giantswarm.io.md" >}}).
```

The first Giant Swarm custom resource you can create is an [Organization]({{< relref "/ui-api/management-api/crd/organizations.security.giantswarm.io.md" >}}).

> In order to create the files in the repo, run the command (in the root of the repo):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to create the files in the repository, run the command (in the root of the repo):
```

```nohighlight
kubectl gs gitops add organization --name ORG_NAME --management-cluster MC_NAME
```

> This is enough to create the Organization on our own.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is enough to create the Organization on our own. It creates automatically the organization namespace where your cluster resources will be applied.
```

```nohighlight
kubectl get namespaces (names will difer)
NAME            STATUS   AGE
org-acme   Active   2m29s
```

### Managing workload clusters

> Next step, once we have an organization is to create workload clusters to run apps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once we have an organization created, we can create workload clusters inside it to run our applications.
```

> Next step, once we have an organization is to create workload clusters to run apps.
> In giant swarm there are several providers to create those clusters. The yaml file of the resource is different for every one so we have created some `bases`, templates that help to create the proper configuration for the clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the next step, we have the organization created so now we can define some workload clusters. In Giant Swarm, we have developed several providers where clusters can be provisioned. Every provider has a different syntax for the infrastructure definition and to reduce the complexity we have defined some [`bases`](https://github.com/giantswarm/gitops-template/tree/main/bases) that helps to configure the clusters.
```

> The configuration structures in layer so every upper layer can modify the conifguration and create a custom and very powerful structure. The different possible layers would be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration structures in layers so every upper layer can modify the configuration and create a custom and very powerful structure. The different possible layers would be:
```

> The configuration structures in layer so every upper layer can modify the conifguration and create a custom and very powerful structure. The different possible layers would be:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The configuration is structured in such a way that each layer can modify the configuration and create a custom and very powerful structure. The different possible layers would be:
```

> - Base with fundamental cluster creation manifests
> - Base versions with different modifications
> - Environments that implement config modifications in the bases
> - Clusters that implement specific configuirations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Base with fundamental cluster creation manifests
- Base versions with different modifications
- Environments that implement config modifications in the bases
- Clusters that implement specific configurations
```

Reviewer: this is missing too

> We can create a cluster starting from a base (using different versions) and an environment. The advantages of this are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a bunch of advantages to createing clusters starting from a base:
```

> - We can group clusters in logical groups that match our infra (dev,pre,prod...)
> - Modifiying the base, we modify all the clusters that implement it (batch update)
> - We can change the clusters between different environments easily

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We can group clusters in logical groups that match our infra (dev, pre, prod...)
- Modifying the base, we modify all the clusters that implement it (batch update)
- We can change the clusters between different environments easily
```

Reviewer: other one

> In this tutorial we are implementing the simpliest form, which is, implement a cluster from a base without applying any extra configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we are implementing the simplest form, which is, to implement a cluster from a base without applying any extra configuration.
```

> In this tutorial we are implementing the simpliest form, which is, implement a cluster from a base without applying any extra configuration.

Reviewer 2: I re-wrote the term `simplest form` under SOPS, I think this is another term I don't like (pedant of me, I know)

```suggestion
In this tutorial we are implementing a cluster from a base without applying any extra configuration.
```

In order to create a workload cluster in our repository we run the command:

```nohighlight
kubectl gs gitops add workload-cluster --management-cluster MC_NAME --name WL_NAME --organization ORG_NAME --repository-name MC_NAME-git-repo --base bases/cluster/PROVIDER --cluster-release 0.18.0 --default-apps-release 0.10.0
```

This will create the folders and the files needed. If you already applied the management cluster `Kustomization`, the cluster will start to be created as you commit and push the files.

> You can add user configurations to the cluster created including different config maps and adding them to the manifests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add user configurations to the cluster created including different config maps and add them to the manifests.
```

### Installing managed apps

> It is just as easy to install managed apps in existing workload clusters. In this part of the guide we will assume you have completed the previous steps and have both an organization and a cluster running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is just as easy to install managed apps in existing workload clusters. In this part of the guide, we will assume you have completed the previous steps and have both an organization and a cluster running.
```

> We are showing the process installing `Grafana` from the `GiantSwarm` app catalog in the namespace `monitoring`.
> In order to add the app files to the repo, run the command (check version numbers for latest releases):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to generate the manifests for installing our `Grafana` managed app from the the `giantswarm` app-catalog into the `monitoring` namespace, we run the command
```

> We are showing the process installing `Grafana` from the `GiantSwarm` app catalog in the namespace `monitoring`.
> In order to add the app files to the repo, run the command (check version numbers for latest releases):
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are showing the process of installing `Grafana` from the `GiantSwarm` app catalog in the namespace `monitoring`. In order to add the app files to the repo, run the command (check version numbers for the latest releases):

```

```nohighlight
kubectl gs gitops add app --management-cluster MC_NAME --workload-cluster WL_NAME --organization ORG_NAME --app grafana --catalog giantswarm --target-namespace monitoring --version 2.0.2
```

> This has created the files and folders needed and the app will be deployed as these files are committed and pushed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above command has created the files and folders needed and the app will be deployed as these files are committed and pushed.
```

> This has created the files and folders needed and the app will be deployed as these files are committed and pushed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The latest version number can be retrieved from the catalog using `helm search repo giantswarm/grafana`

Commit the newly generated files back to your git repository and push the changes to the remote. After a few minutes you should see the application resources appear on your workload cluster.
```

Due to extra security policies enforced by Kyverno, setting `.spec.serviceAccountName` for `Kustomization`/`HelmRelease` resources in our Management Clusters is mandatory. Usually, you will want to use `serviceAccountName: "automation"`.

## Creating your repo structure

Whilst a gitops repository can have any arbitrary layout which provides flexibility in adapting the repo to your own infrastructure, At giant swarm we recommend a clear hierarchical structure for your repository which provides a number of advantages:

> - The general layout of the repository closely mirrors infrastructure defined within giant swarm.
> - It's easy to locate resources and know what they are and where they are deployed.
> - Our engineers are familiar with the layout which saves time during support requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The general layout of the repository closely mirrors the infrastructure defined within Giant Swarm.
- It's easy to locate resources and know what they are and where they are deployed.
- Our engineers are familiar with the layout which saves time during support requests.
```

Then, we create a Flux `GitRepository` resource that points to the repository. We need a `GitRepository` resource for every management cluster we want to manage. In the `GitRepository` resource we define the URL where our repository is stored.

Now, we need to create a secret (we will refer to it as GIT_CREDENTIALS_SECRET, please, replace with the chosen name) with the credentials to access the repository. This will allow Flux to download the repo files in order to apply all resources. If your repo is public you don't need the secret and can safely delete the parameter `secret-ref` of the next command.
This process is different depending on the git platform used (ssh-keys, token, user/password). Check documentation of every provider to create the secret.

```nohighlight
flux create source git MC_NAME-git-repo \
        --url=YOUR_REPO_URL \
        --branch=main \
        --interval=30s \
        --namespace=default \
        --ignore-paths='**,!management-clusters/MC_NAME/**,!bases/**,**.md' \
        --secret-ref=GIT_CREDENTIALS_SECRET \
        --export > management-clusters/MC_NAME/MC_NAME-git-repo.yaml
```

> This command creates the Custom Resource for us and exports it to a yaml file in the `management-cluster` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command creates the Custom Resource for us and exports it to a YAML file in the `management-clusters` folder.
```

Time to apply the generated YAML:

```nohighlight
kubectl create -f management-clusters/MC_NAME/MC_NAME-git-repo.yaml
```

We can see if the change was applied using `kubectl` (names will difer):

```nohiglight
kubectl get gitrepositories -n default 
NAME        URL                                       READY   STATUS                                                            AGE
flux-demo   https://github.com/giantswarm/flux-demo   True    Fetched revision: main/74f8d19cc2ac9bee6f45660236344a054c63b71f   27s
```

or Flux CLI - `flux`:

```nohighlight
 flux get sources git -n default 
NAME            READY   MESSAGE                                                         REVISION                                        SUSPENDED
flux-demo       True    Fetched revision: main/74f8d19cc2ac9bee6f45660236344a054c63b71f main/74f8d19cc2ac9bee6f45660236344a054c63b71f   False
```

> Next, we configure the keys that will be used in the management cluster flux to decipher secrets so they can be safely stored in the repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we configure the keys that will be used in the management cluster Flux to decipher secrets so they can be safely stored in the repo.
```
Please be consistent with uppercase handling

```

Now we are applying the `Kustomization` file to the management cluster so the files in this repo will be monitored and the resources created accordingly. After this, any resource creation in the cluster doesn't need kubectl access. Now, if you add any more CRs inside the folders managed by the `Kustomization` they will be picked up by Flux automatically once it's committed and pushed.

```nohighlight
kubectl create -f management-clusters/MC_NAME/MC_NAME.yaml
```

### Managing organizations

The highest level Giant Swarm custom resource you can create is an [Organization]({{< relref "/ui-api/management-api/crd/organizations.security.giantswarm.io.md" >}}).

In order to create the files in the repository, run the command (in the root of the repo):

```nohighlight
kubectl gs gitops add organization --name ORG_NAME --management-cluster MC_NAME
```

This is enough to create the Organization on our own. It creates automatically the organization namespace where your cluster resources will be applied.

```nohighlight
kubectl get namespaces (names will difer)
NAME            STATUS   AGE
org-acme   Active   2m29s
```

### Managing workload clusters

> Now the managed application will be installed in your workload cluster. To learn more about how to utilize and configure Managed Apps, please refer to [the documentation]({{< relref "/platform-overview/app-platform/overview">}}).

Reviewer: I dont understand this paragraph here. Which managed application?

Reviewer 2: This paragraph looks like overflow - managed apps are discussed in the section below, I think this can/should be either deleted or moved to the "Installing managed apps" section.

Author: this has been addressed
